## CVI 

### Startup and usage

#### Quick start 

Under the `cle-extension` subdirectory under `cvi` repo

```bash
npm install
```

Press `f5` to build and open the extension in a new window. 
A `*.c` or `*.cpp` file must be opened to activate the extension. 

The plugin can be built and installed using `vsce`

```bash
npm install -g vsce
# .vsix generated
vsce package
```

Then you can install the extension in vscode under the extensions window.
There you can click the `...` menu and a dropdown will appear containing `Install from VSIX`.
From there you can give vscode the `.vsix` that was built.

Similarly, the `vsce package` command can be repeated to build the `cle-highlighter` and
`cle-themes` extensions within each of their respective subdirectories in CVI.    

### CLE plugin and language server

The language server is an intermediary between vscode and the conflict analyzer which
handles translating diagnostics from the conflict analyzer into a standardized form defined
by the Language Server Protocol (LSP).

**Diagram from Client --> Language Server --> Conflict Analyzer**    

Since there is no significant coupling between the client and server, 
the language server could be run separately and could be used to supply
diagnostics for different IDEs such as neovim, emacs, eclipse, atom, etc. However, in order
to fully support the CLE plugin, the language client would need to support the `highlight`
and `unhighlight` notifications, which are custom commands to highlight ranges of code with
colors, to visually see the assignments of functions to enclaves.

### Setting up a new project (Makefiles and VScode tasks)
